>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so fad diets.
What do we know about fad diets?
People start these diets and
they think they're gonna work.
They're gonna lose all this weight or
they're gonna get a six pack or
whatever it is that they wanna do.
And it doesn't work, and
that's why it's a fad diet.
So here are some fad diets in this class,
in programming,
in general, that I found from students.
It's basically,
you think it's gonna work but it's not.
So, first one is reading or
watching a video or
a blog about this concept means I'm gonna
know how to implement it and code it out.
Sorry, it doesn't work like that.
I'm going to look it up later,
no you're not.
My brain hurts, I'm not smart.
Trust me, my brain hurts, too.
We're gonna be doing this for six days,
my brain is gonna be all
kinds of hurting after this.
So failing an interview means I'm a bad
engineer because interviews are testing
for my engineering ability.
Unfortunately that's not true at all.
Most technical interviews are not a good
measure of your abilities as an engineer.
For whatever reason, there are certain
metrics that tech companies
have employed to measure your
ability as a software engineer.
The bad news is that it actually
doesn't work at all, and
there's been many study's
proving this wrong.
Everyone is arguing right now about
a new type of tech interview,
that it's a better test of your skill and
people are trying that out.
But still, these data structures and
algorithms questions are gonna
be typical of an interview for
a software engineering position.
And like Mark was saying,
he's been an engineer for 15 years, and
he doesn't even understand this.
It doesn't mean he's a bad engineer.
It just means this has very little
to do with what you are going to do
on a day to day.
You can apply these concepts.
But for the most part,
they're almost a separate topic.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
and then the last one is my favorite.
I read the solutions and
now I understand it.
It's not true, try it first before
you look at the solutions please.
There are all these ways to give yourself
a false sense of accomplishment.
Yeah, it feels good,
you should read the slides and all that.
But the real goal is to
be able to code it out.
And so reading the solutions,
skipping the exercises,
anything that's gonna lead you down
that path, is the wrong path, right?
So just know that.
And what else did I wanna say about that?
I had something and
I just went, just is gone.
What else?
[BLANK AUDIO] Okay,
maybe that's all I got.
Great, so with that how to succeed,
don't fall for
any of the fad diets
that I just explained.
Pair with someone else taking the course.
Being able to explain your thought process
with another person is gonna be super
crucial in the communication aspect that
a lot of you guys were talking about.
I wanna be able to
communicate like an engineer.
I wanna be able to get a job.
This is all based on communication.
Can you talk your interviewer
through your thought process?
Can you get someone else
on the same page so
that you can move forward
with the next line of code?
So try to do the exercise without
looking at the solutions.
If you can't control yourself
because you know the solutions
are there on the Internet.
When you look at them, [LAUGH] try and
do the solution without looking
at it at the same time.
Does that make sense?
So say you go, and you're,
my gosh, there's a marshmallow and
I have to eat it, I can't wait 15 minutes.
You could [LAUGH] go look at it,
and then come back, but
don't look at it while you're
implementing your solution.
And you can go back and
forth, back and forth.
As long as eventually you
get to a point where you can
come up with your own
solution without memorizing.
That's really important.
Don't memorize a solution,
cuz it's not gonna help you.
Come up with your own process for
these solutions.
Be okay with failing.
You're gonna mess up,
you might ask a question that
makes you feel like it's a dumb question,
it's probably not a dumb question.
So, be okay with that, we're here to
learn and learning is a hard process,
learning will hurt your brain and
this is one of those things.
These topics, I think it's
the name really, like algorithms.
Like that word is this long, and
anything with a word that long is
automatically intimidating, right?
But we're gonna learn,
we gonna mess up together,
it's gonna be awesome, I already messed
up, it's only been like a minute.
So, we'll be here together, it'll be okay.
Ask me questions, please ask me questions.
Please, please, please ask me questions.
Okay, do you guys promise?
I'm gonna cry, I'm crying already,
can you see the tears?
Just kidding, those are freckles.
All right, we're good?
We're good, what else?
A guide to pair programming, read this,
I think I'm talking for too long.
It's gonna be hard to talk all day for
six days, I know.
But you guys probably have to do this
at work most of the time anyway.
Does anyone pair program at work?
Yeah, so you're used to it.
You know what the deal is.
Communicate deliberately, be specific,
don't say, save this thing and
then loop through the thing.
And then, stuff and things.
Leave those general words at the door,
come in with specific
programming terminology.
It's okay for you to think for
a moment about, what's that word again?
Yeah, you know?
You know, variable, or
the variable i, etc.
One person is typing,
one person is talking,
that's typical of pair programming.
The style that you wanna do is totally
up to you, but that's one style.
If you are online, codeshare.io,
invite someone online to do a co-chair.
Co-chair who will hang out or whatever you
wanna do, that's gonna be really important
to keep you engaged, accountable and
doing the exercises.
Last but not least, be nice.
Don't say things like my god,
I can't believe you don't know.
Or you didn't know that thing?
Just stop, come on,
it's not even necessary.
And most importantly, have fun.
I know this is like an academic topic.
But trust me, it can be fun.
And I already have an idea for
an awesome board game.
It's like a Scooby Doo mystery data
structures algorithm board game.
It's gonna be great.
Coming to stores near you, probably,
I don't know, probably never.
But it's here, and it can be fun.